[SYNTH11931] Create README for the integration (#8)
DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests: README.md

> # Datadog Continuous Testing for Bitrise

Reviewer: Nice! It's the full name indeed ([docs](https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_testing/)), and we use that kind of title for Azure DevOps: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci-azure-devops

Should we align that title for all CI integrations? cc. @jakepruitt

Author: Yup i read the other 3 integration READMEs and Frankenstein-ed this one from the best parts of them in my opinion :D

> <!-- TODO add link to marketplace after we publish the step -->

Reviewer: Can you add this to the "Definition of done" of the corresponding card?

<!-- [![Visual Studio Marketplace Version]()][A-1]  -->

> <!-- [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-ci/Datadog%20CI%20Azure%20DevOps%20Extension/_apis/build/status%2FDevelopment?branchName=main)](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-ci/Datadog%20CI%20Azure%20DevOps%20Extension/_build/latest?definitionId=4&branchName=main) -->

Reviewer: Can you change that icon to show the Bitrise CI status?

https://devcenter.bitrise.io/en/apps/embedding-an-app-status-badge.html

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

# Overview

With the `synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests` step you can run Synthetics tests during your Bitrise CI and ensure all your teams using Bitrise can benefit from Synthetic tests at every stage of the software lifecycle. This step uses the [Datadog CI Synthetics command][B-2].

## Setup

To get started:

> 1. Add this step to your workflow. You can see Bitrise's documentation on how to do that [here][D-1]. You can also configure it locally by referencing this step in your `bitrise.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add this step to your workflow. You can see Bitrise's documentation on how to do that [here][D-1]. You can also configure it locally by referencing this step in your `bitrise.yml`.
```

> 1. Add this step to your workflow. You can see Bitrise's documentation on how to do that [here][D-1]. You can also configure it locally by referencing this step in your `bitrise.yml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add this step to your workflow. You can see Bitrise's documentation on how to do that [here][D-1]. You can also configure it locally by referencing this step in your `bitrise.yml`.
```

For accessibility reasons, the text of a link should describe the content of the link. For example, you could rewrite the sentence above to "See Bitrise's documentation on how to do that," with "Bitrise's documentation" as the link.

> 2. Add you API and App Keys to your secrets in Bitrise. Documentation on how to do that can be found [here][D-2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add you API and App Keys to your secrets in Bitrise. Documentation on how to do that can be found [here][D-2].
```

> 2. Add you API and App Keys to your secrets in Bitrise. Documentation on how to do that can be found [here][D-2]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add your API and App Keys to your secrets in Bitrise. Documentation on how to do that can be found [here][D-2].
```

> 3. Configure your step inputs ([docs][D-3]). You can also configure them in your `bitrise.yml`. The only required inputs are the 2 secrets you configured earlier. The rest of the possible inputs will be described later on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Configure your step inputs ([docs][D-3]). You can also configure them in your `bitrise.yml`. The only required inputs are the 2 secrets you configured earlier. The rest of the possible inputs are described in a later section.
```

Unfortunately, while references like [D-3] are supported by Markdown, using letters in link references can cause problems in the documentation translation system. If you would still like to have clear sections in your links, you could use 1000, 2000, 3000, etc., with 1003 being the third link in the 1000 series.

## How to use this Step locally

> Can be run directly with the [bitrise CLI][B-3], just `git clone` this repository, `cd` into it's folder in your Terminal/Command Line and call `bitrise run test`.

Reviewer: Looks like `git clone` and `cd` are already described in the step-by-step process below.

> Can be run directly with the [bitrise CLI][B-3], just `git clone` this repository, `cd` into it's folder in your Terminal/Command Line and call `bitrise run test`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Can be run directly with the [Bitrise CLI][B-3], just `git clone` this repository, `cd` into it's folder in your Terminal/Command Line and call `bitrise run test`.
```
Or `bitrise`

> Can be run directly with the [bitrise CLI][B-3], just `git clone` this repository, `cd` into it's folder in your Terminal/Command Line and call `bitrise run test`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This step can be run directly with the [bitrise CLI][B-3]. Just `git clone` this repository, `cd` into the repository folder, and call `bitrise run test`.
```

# Datadog Continuous Testing for Bitrise

<!-- TODO add link to marketplace after we publish the step -->
<!-- [![Visual Studio Marketplace Version]()][1001]  -->
[![Build Status](https://app.bitrise.io/app/7846c17b-8a13004fc7-aced-5f3b0b2ec6c4/status.svg?token=480MdFpG78E6kZASg5w1dw&branch=main)](https://app.bitrise.io/app/7846c17b-8a13004fc7-aced-5f3b0b2ec6c4)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

# Overview

> With the `synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests` step you can run Synthetics tests during your Bitrise CI and ensure all your teams using Bitrise can benefit from Synthetic tests at every stage of the software lifecycle. This step uses the [Datadog CI Synthetics command][2002].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the `synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests` step, you can run Synthetics tests during your Bitrise CI and ensure all your teams using Bitrise can benefit from Synthetic tests at every stage of the software lifecycle. This step uses the [Datadog CI Synthetics command][2002].
```

## Setup

To get started:

1. Add this step to your workflow. You can see [Bitrise's documentation][4001] on how to do that. You can also configure it locally by referencing this step in your `bitrise.yml`.

> 2. Add your API and App Keys to your secrets in Bitrise. Documentation on how to do that can be found here - [Setting a Secret][4002].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Add your API and App keys to your secrets in Bitrise. Documentation on how to do that can be found here: [Setting a Secret][4002].
```

> 3. Configure your step inputs ([Step Inputs][4003]). You can also configure them in your `bitrise.yml`. The only required inputs are the 2 secrets you configured earlier. The rest of the possible inputs are described in a later section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Configure your step inputs (see the [Step Inputs documentation][4003]). You can also configure them in your `bitrise.yml`. The only required inputs are the 2 secrets you configured earlier. The rest of the possible inputs are described in a later section.
```

> ## How to use this Step locally

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to use this step locally
```
It seems that "step" is lowercased most of the time, so I'm lowercasing it here for consistency, but you could also capitalize it throughout if you prefer that.

Author: I think this one i'll leave capitalised as `Step` is the terminology that Bitrise uses for this kind of integration

> This Step can be run directly with the [Bitrise CLI][2003].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This step can be run directly with the [Bitrise CLI][2003].
```

   (the `.bitrise.secrets.yml` is a git ignored file, you can store your secrets in it)
6. Check the `bitrise.yml` file for any secret you should set in `.bitrise.secrets.yml`
  * Best practice is to mark these options with something like `# define these in your .bitrise.secrets.yml`, in the `app:envs` section.

> 7. Once you have all the required secret parameters in your `.bitrise.secrets.yml` you can just run this step with the [bitrise CLI][B-3]: `bitrise run test`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Once you have the required secret parameters in your `.bitrise.secrets.yml`, run this step with the [bitrise CLI][B-3]: `bitrise run test`.
```

## Complex usage

### Example task using the `testSearchQuery`

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - test_search_query: 'tag:e2e-tests'
```

### Example task using the `testSearchQuery` and variable overrides

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - test_search_query: 'tag:e2e-tests'
   - variables: |
      START_URL=https://staging.website.com
      PASSWORD=$STAGING_PASSWORD
```

### Example task using a global configuration override with `configPath`

This task overrides the path to the global `datadog-ci.config.json` file.

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - config_path: './synthetics-config.json'
```

For an example configuration file, see the [`global.config.json` file][2001].

### Example including all possible configurations

> For reference here's how a full configuration could look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For reference here's how a full configuration could look:
```

- A_SECRET_PARAM_TWO: the value for secret two
```

## Simple usage

### Example using public IDs

> <!-- TODO: change git urls to step references after we publish it -->

Reviewer: Also add that to the corresponding card (the definition of done can just say something like "fix all TODOs in READMEs")

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY

>    - public_ids: '012-345-678, 9ab-cde-fff'

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of the "only-numbers" one... can you use the same example as the other integrations?

```suggestion
   - public_ids: 'abc-d3f-ghi, jkl-mn0-pqr'
```

Author: Will do, i released i changed them based on a false premise 🤦

```

### Example task using existing `synthetics.json` files

```yaml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - files: 'e2e-tests/*.synthetics.json'
```

For an example test file, see this [`test.synthetics.json` file][C-2].

## Complex usage

### Example task using the `testSearchQuery`

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - test_search_query: 'tag:e2e-tests'
```

### Example task using the `testSearchQuery` and variable overrides

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - test_search_query: 'tag:e2e-tests'
   - variables: |
      START_URL=https://staging.website.com

>       PASSWORD=$(StagingPassword)

Reviewer: I doubt that `$(StagingPassword)` is the actual syntax to refer to secrets in Bitrise 🤔 

Also the `StagingPassword` camel case is really "Microsoft-y" 😅 

Something like this would probably work:

```suggestion
      PASSWORD=$STAGING_PASSWORD
```

```

### Example task using a global configuration override with `configPath`

This task overrides the path to the global `datadog-ci.config.json` file.

```yml
- git::https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests.git:
   inputs:
   - api_key: $DATADOG_API_KEY
   - app_key: $DATADOG_APP_KEY
   - config_path: './synthetics-config.json'
```

> For an example configuration file, see this [`global.config.json` file][B-1].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For an example configuration file, see the [`global.config.json` file][B-1].
```

### Example including all possible configurations

> There shouldn't be any cases where you would need to use all of the configurations at the same time as for example `public_ids` and `test_search_query` are mutually exclusive. However having an example for the value of each is useful.

Reviewer: No need to be too wordy about that, and I believe that in a perfect world the `public_ids` and `test_search_query` shouldn't be mutually exclusive. For now this is an implementation detail, which can change in datadog-ci 😉 

```suggestion
For reference, here is how a full configuration could look like:
```

> There shouldn't be any cases where you would need to use all of the configurations at the same time as for example `public_ids` and `test_search_query` are mutually exclusive. However having an example for the value of each is useful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You won't need to use all of the configurations at the same time (for example, `public_ids` and `test_search_query` are mutually exclusive). The example below is not intended as a valid configuration, it just provides examples of all values for reference.
```

| `apiKey`                           | _required_  | Your Datadog API key. This key is created by your [Datadog organization][C-6] and will be accessed as an environment variable.                                                                                        |
| `appKey`                           | _required_  | Your Datadog application key. This key is created by your [Datadog organization][C-6] and will be accessed as an environment variable.                                                                                |
| `configPath`                       | _optional_  | The global JSON configuration is used when launching tests. See the [example configuration][C-3] for more details.                                                                                                    |
| `deviceIds`                        | _optional_  | Override the mobile device(s) to run your mobile test.                                                                                                                                                                |

> | `failOnCriticalErrors`             | _optional_  | A boolean flag that fails the CI job if no tests were triggered, or results could not be fetched from Datadog. The default is set to `false`                                                                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `failOnCriticalErrors`             | _optional_  | A boolean flag that fails the CI job if no tests were triggered, or results could not be fetched from Datadog. The default is set to `false`.                                                                          |
```

> | `failOnMissingTests`               | _optional_  | Fail the CI job if at least one specified test with a public ID (using `publicIds` or listed in a [test file][C-2] is missing in a run (for example, if it has been deleted programmatically or on the Datadog site). |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `failOnMissingTests`               | _optional_  | Fail the CI job if at least one specified test with a public ID (using `publicIds` or listed in a [test file][C-2]) is missing in a run (for example, if it has been deleted programmatically or on the Datadog site). |
```

| `jUnitReport`                      | _optional_  | The filename for a JUnit report if you want to generate one.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `locations`                        | _optional_  | String of locations separated by semicolons to override the locations where your tests run.                                                                                                                           |
| `mobileApplicationVersion`         | _optional_  | Override the default mobile application version for a Synthetic mobile application test. The version must be uploaded and available within Datadog.                                                                   |
| `mobileApplicationVersionFilePath` | _optional_  | Override the application version for Synthetic mobile application tests.                                                                                                                                              |

> | `pollingTimeout`                   | _optional_  | The duration (in milliseconds) after which the batch is deemed as failed because of a time out. The default is 30 minutes.                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `pollingTimeout`                   | _optional_  | The duration (in milliseconds) after which the batch is deemed as failed because of a timeout. The default is 30 minutes.                                                                                            |
```

| `publicIds`                        | _optional_  | String of public IDs separated by commas for Synthetic tests you want to trigger.                                                                                                                                     |
| `site`                             | _optional_  | The Datadog site to send data to. If the `DD_SITE` environment variable is set, it takes precedence.                                                                                                                  |
| `subdomain`                        | _optional_  | The name of the custom subdomain set to access your Datadog application. If the URL used to access Datadog is `myorg.datadoghq.com`, the `subdomain` value needs to be set to `myorg`.                                |

> | `testSearchQuery`                  | _optional_  | Trigger tests corresponding to a [search][C-5]  query. This can be useful if you are tagging your test configurations. See [best practices][C-7]  for more information on tagging.                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `testSearchQuery`                  | _optional_  | Trigger tests corresponding to a [search][C-5] query. This can be useful if you are tagging your test configurations. See [best practices][C-7]  for more information on tagging.                                    |
```

[B-2]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/tree/master/src/commands/synthetics#test-files
[B-3]: https://github.com/bitrise-io/bitrise

<!-- Links to datadog documentation -->
[C-1]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_testing/cicd_integrations/configuration
[C-2]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_testing/cicd_integrations/configuration/?tab=npm#test-files
[C-3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_testing/cicd_integrations/configuration/?tab=npm#global-configuration-file-options
[C-4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_testing/testing_tunnel
[C-5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/search/#search
[C-6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/
[C-7]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/guide/what-best-practices-are-recommended-for-naming-metrics-and-tags/#rules-and-best-practices-for-naming-tags

<!-- Integration specific links -->
[D-1]: https://devcenter.bitrise.io/en/steps-and-workflows/introduction-to-steps/adding-steps-to-a-workflow.html
[D-2]: https://devcenter.bitrise.io/en/builds/secrets.html#setting-a-secret
[D-3]: https://devcenter.bitrise.io/en/steps-and-workflows/introduction-to-steps/step-inputs.html

<!-- Other -->

> [E-1]: https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/best-practices-datadog-continuous-testing/

Reviewer: I didn't know that was possible! We have to ensure it's supported by our Datadog docs, since this README page will at some point be single-sourced (i.e. used as the source code for the Datadog docs as well).

[**Example:**](https://docs.datadoghq.com/continuous_testing/cicd_integrations/github_actions/)

![image](https://github.com/DataDog/synthetics-test-automation-bitrise-step-run-tests/assets/9317502/f97cc0a4-f1c4-4a83-8581-cfb06ef7c9ac)
